# 3.2 - Data Disparity Resolution Between Local and OpenLibrary Data

### Main Objective:

Since we are taking user input data and data from OpenLibrary, there are certain situations that
can cause data anomalies. For this task we are negotiating between the two sources of data and
resolving the potential cases.


#### Task 3.2.1 - Case: ISBN already present in database

Note: Already has been addressed, noted for documentation purposes.


#### Task 3.2.2 - Case: Book not in OL database
Handled in: OL API 

Just return a response the OL does not have the book queried.


#### Task 3.2.3 - Case: Same book different ISBN

Different editions of books can have different ISBNs. This can lead to a user adding the same book twice under
a different ISBN. This can happen two ways:
- User Error:
  - Handled in: Mediator Module
  - Arises when a user adds two books that are the same with two different ISBNs.
- OL-Local Mismatch:
  - Handled in: Mediator Module
  - This occurs when a user adds a book under one ISBN and then searches the same title through the OL interface.
  - It is possible that a returned result from OL gives a different ISBN title match and the user adds the present book
  under a different ISBN
  - Additionally, an OL result that matches an ISBN through a title search needs to be addressed.

Possible Solutions:
- Search Local Database for Title-Author Matches:
  1. First: Query OL normally for data, and get returned result.
  2. Second: We use the OL data to search the local database for any matches on ISBN and add any to the duplicate key in
  JSON result (will explain later).
     - Note: Since a title search can return the book already in the database.
  3. Third: We use OL result to search for Title-Author matches under different ISBN and add any result to the duplicate
  key in JSON result.
  4. Fourth: Give the rest of the OL results that passed the previous tests.
    
    EXAMPLE:
    - User Locally adds 'The Hobbit' under ISBN: 0395520215
    - User Queries through OL: 'Hobbit'
    - OL response: Includes (truncated) {ISBN: 0395520215, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}
                                        {ISBN: 9780547928227, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}
                                        {ISBN: 1857939379, title: The Hobbit Companion, author: David Day}
    - First, we address the duplicate by adding the result to the present key in the result JSON response
      - {present: {ISBN: 0395520215, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}}
    - Second, we look for Title-Author pairs that with different ISBN and then add to duplicate response key
      - {present: [{ISBN: 0395520215, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}],
         duplicate: [{ISBN: 9780547928227, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}],}
    - Third, we get the other results and add it to the response JSON
      - {present: [{ISBN: 0395520215, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}],
         duplicate: [{ISBN: 9780547928227, title: The Hobbit, author: J.R.R. Tolkien}],
         result: [{ISBN: 1857939379, title: The Hobbit Companion, author: David Day}]}
    - Fourth, the frontend will put the three different types into there respective sections for the results.

- Add a Deduplicated button in frontend (easiest)
  - Searches for books that have same Titles-Author Pairs and lets the user delete what they want.

    
#### Task 3.2.4 - Case: Adding a new book from OL where author/publisher was added to database by user
Handled in: Mediator Module

When a user adds an author or publisher locally they may have misspelled the entry. This can cause disparities between
local data and OL data when adding new books for an author or publisher. This will be corrected destructively using
OLID from OL.

Note: Make sure to not update records if an OLID is already present.

- First, when adding a new book from OL if the author/publisher is present without an OLID this means it was locally
created
- Second, we pull the author/publisher information from OL and destructively add Author/Publisher name with OLID

The only issue that we need to be aware of is that two authors for a book may cause a mismatch in updates.
- For example, if a book has two authors and both are without an OLID, an update may incorrectly mismatch the author's
information for the other.
- The best solution I can think of is to check the author names too, and match with the name.


#### Task 3.2.5 - Case: Updating a Locally added book with OL data
Handled in: Mediator Module

Individual book entries will have an update button that can update a local book with OL data. We will make this
updating destructive for author, publisher, summary, and cover image.

- First, we call functions created for Task 3.2.4 to check and/or update authors/publishers with OLID.
- Second, we get the summary from OL and update the book record.
- Third, we get the cover image from OL and update the book record.
- Forth, we add the OLID to book entry.

With the addition of the OLID for the book entry, we can remove the update button and prevent a user from repeatedly updating.





```

# OLID is OpenLibrary internal ID for authors or books
# First receive user input of either ISBN, title, or author

# ISBN search Edge Case:
    # 1. Same books, but different editions can have different ISBN

# OL_ISBN_search(isbn: int):
    # IF isbn in database:
        # return isbn already in local_database
    # ELSE:
        # OpenLibrary API GET /isbn/{isbn} with isbn
        # IF response_success:
            # return JSON information for matched ISBN
        # ELSE:
            # return ISBN not present in OpenLibrary API, try a book title

# ISBN_variant_check(json: object): # Make sure to add functionality for multiple authors
    # First parse JSON for keys:
    # book_title = json["title"] -> "BookTitle"
    # author_OLID = json["authors"] -> ["key": "authors/{OLID}"]
    # IF author_OLID in local_database:
        # author_OLID_from_local_database = get_OLID_from_local_database(author_OLID)
    # ELSE:
        # json_response = GET /authors/{olid}
        # author_name = json_response["name"]
        # create_author(author_name, olid)
    # IF book_title in local_database AND author_OLID matches:
        # return Book record already present under {other_ISBN}
    # ELSE:
        #
        # GET request for any other information needed (i.e. cover_image)
        # Send to the mediator create function to be commited to database

# ISBN_variant_check(OL_ISBN_search(1234567890123))


# OL_title_search(book_title: str):
    # json = GET /search.json{book_title}





# ISBN missing from OpenLibrary Database Function
#

```