docs/pseudocode-for-tasks/sprint-2-week-1/2.5.2 - Read Full Book Record.md, before:

# 2.5.2 - Read Full Book Record

Note: You could implement the functions with complex queries or use existing read functions
to compose a JSON result from multiple function calls. The pseudocode will be written with the
latter option.

Note: Pseudocode and variable/function names are only for guidance. The only things that are a must 
are the inputs and outputs of the functions.

JSON Schema that all resulting functions that return the whole record must have:
Note: Sample data is included (max possible authors and genres included)
```JSON
{"ISBN": "user_provided_isbn",
 "title": "SomeBook",
 "publish_date": "2026",
 "publisher_id": "3",
 "summary": "asdfdasadfsdfsafds",
 "tag_id": "4",
 "chapters": "23",
 "chapters_completed": "3",
 "cover_image_bytes": "",
 "AuthorID_1": "1",
 "Author_First_Name_1": "John",
 "Author_Last_Name_1": "Doe",
 "AuthorID_2": "4",
 "Author_First_Name_2": "Jane",
 "Author_Last_Name_3": "Doe",
 "Publisher_Name": "SomePublisher",
 "Owned": "yes",
 "Favorite": "yes",
 "Completed": "no",
 "Currently_Reading": "yes",
 "PersonalOrAcademic": "personal",
 "GenreID_1": "1",
 "Genre_1": "fiction",
 "GenreID_2": "3",
 "Genre_2": "fantasy",
 "GenreID_3": "6",
 "Genre_3": "humor",
 "GenreID_4": "4",
 "Genre_4": "drama"}
```

These functions will need to either use existing, reworked, or new query functions to construct.
The following functions are needed:
- read_book_table(isbn) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
    {"ISBN": "user_provided_isbn",
    "title": "SomeBook",
    "publish_date": "2026",
    "publisher_id": "3",
    "summary": "asdfdasadfsdfsafds",
    "tag_id": "4",
    "chapters": "23",
    "chapters_completed": "3",
    "cover_image_bytes": ""}
    ````
- read_author_id(isbn) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"AuthorIDs": ["1", "4"]}
    ````
- read_author_name(author_ids_for_book) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"1": ["John", "Doe"],"4": ["Jane", "Doe"]}
    ````
- read_publisher_name(publisher_id) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"PublisherID": "Publisher_Name"}
    ````
- read_tag_table(tag_id) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"Owned": "yes",
         "Favorite": "yes",
         "Completed": "no",
         "Currently_Reading": "yes",
         "PersonalOrAcademic": "personal"}
    ````
- read_genre_ids(isbn) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"GenreIDs": ["1", "3", "6", "4"]}
    ````
- read_genres(genre_ids) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"1": "fiction", 
         "3": "fantasy",
         "6": "humor",
         "4": "drama"}
    ````

    
### 2.5.2.1 - Read Book Record Based on ISBN (i.e. returning all entries).



````
# Function that takes isbn and returns records matching the isbn from tables:
# book, author, publisher, tag, genre, and notes
# This is the biggest function, pretty much all other functions can call this

read_all_book_data(isbn): -> JSON

    # First read book table information from ISBN and add to json_result
    json_result += read_book_table(isbn) # function call returns JSON and append it here
    print(json_result) # Should return: {'isbn': 'user_provided_isbn',
                                         'title': 'SomeBook',
                                         'publish_date': '2026',
                                         'publisher_id': '3',
                                         'summary': 'asdfdasadfsdfsafds',
                                         'tag_id': '4',
                                         'chapters': '23',
                                         'chapters_completed': '3',
                                         'cover_image_bytes': ''} # this can be junk data for now

    
    # Next use ISBN to read BookAuthor table and get AuthorIDs associated with ISBN
    author_ids_for_book = read_author_id(isbn) -> JSON
    print(author_ids_for_book) # Should return: {'AuthorIDs': ['1']} or
                               #                {'AuthorIDs': ['1', '4']}
                               # 1 and 4 refer to example AuthorIDs
    
    # Next using AuthorIDs, get the author first and last names
    author_names = read_author_name(author_ids_for_book) -> JSON
    print(author_names) # Should return: {'1': ['John', 'Doe']}
                        #                                    or
                        #                {'1': ['John', 'Doe'],
                        #                 '4': ['Jane', 'Doe']}
                        # 1 and 4 in this case are example AuthorIDs
    
    # Add AuthorIDs and AuthorNames to json_result
    IF len(author_names) > 2:
        raise ERROR
    ELSE:
        author_number = 1
        FOR key, value in author_names:
            json_result[f'AuthorID_{author_number}'] = key
            json_result[f'Author_First_Name_{author_number}'] = value[0]
            json_result[f'Author_Last_Name_{author_number}'] = value[1]
            author_number += 1
            
    
    # Next use Publishers table with PublisherID to get Publisher_Name
    publisher_name_for_book = read_publisher_name(publisher_id) -> JSON
    print(publisher_name_for_book) # Should return: {'PublisherID': 'Publisher_Name'}
    
    # Directly add the Publisher Name as a new key-value pair to json_result with Publisher Name
    json_result['Publisher_Name'] = publisher_name_for_book['PublisherID']
    
    # Next get Tag information from Tag Table using TagID
    tag_values = read_tag_table(tag_id) -> JSON
    print(tag_values) # Should return: {'Owned': 'yes',
                      #                 'Favorite': 'yes',
                      #                 'Completed': 'no',
                      #                 'Currently_Reading': 'yes',
                      #                 'PersonalOrAcademic': 'personal'}
    # Add Tags to json_result
    FOR key, value in tag_values:
        json_result[key] = value
    
    # Next get GenreID using ISBN from BookGenre Table
    genre_ids = read_genre_ids(isbn) -> JSON
    # Books must have atleast one genre (fiction or nonfiction), up to 3 additional genres
    print(genre_ids) # Should return: {'GenreIDs': ['1', '3', '6', '4']} # Example GenreIDs
    
    # Now get the genres based on the genre_ids
    genres_book_has = read_genres(genre_ids) -> JSON
    print(genres_book_has) # Should return: {'1': 'fiction',
                           #                 '3': 'fantasy',
                           #                 '6': 'humor',
                           #                 '4': 'drama'}
                           # Do not reflect actual ids from genre, only an example
    
    # Now add the genre_ids and genres to json_result
    genre_number = 1
    FOR key, value in genre_ids:
        json_result[f'GenreID_{genre_number}'] = key
        json_result[f'Genre_{genre_number}'] = value
        genre_number += 1
    
    # Was going to add Notes to this function, but that will not be included in this one
    # it will put in a separate function later
    
    # Resulting JSON should look like this:
    print(json_result) # Should return: {'isbn': 'user_provided_isbn',
                                         'title': 'SomeBook',
                                         'publish_date': '2026',
                                         'publisher_id': '3',
                                         'summary': 'asdfdasadfsdfsafds',
                                         'tag_id': '4',
                                         'chapters': '23',
                                         'chapters_completed': '3',
                                         'cover_image_bytes': '', # this can be junk data for now
                                         'AuthorID_1': '1',
                                         'Author_First_Name_1': 'John',
                                         'Author_Last_Name_1': 'Doe',
                                         'AuthorID_2': '4',
                                         'Author_First_Name_2': 'Jane'
                                         'Author_Last_Name_3': 'Doe'
                                         'Publisher_Name': 'SomePublisher',
                                         'Owned': 'yes',
                                         'Favorite': 'yes',
                                         'Completed': 'no',
                                         'Currently_Reading': 'yes',
                                         'PersonalOrAcademic': 'personal',
                                         'GenreID_1': '1',
                                         'Genre_1': 'fiction',
                                         'GenreID_2': '3',
                                         'Genre_2': 'fantasy',
                                         'GenreID_3': '6',
                                         'Genre_3': 'humor',
                                         'GenreID_4': '4',
                                         'Genre_4': 'drama'
                                        }
    return json_result
````

### 2.5.2.2 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Title (i.e. return all entries).

````
read_all_book_data_by_title(title): -> JSON
    # First block searchs with only words like 'the'
    # We can work on the BLOCK_LIST later
    BLOCK_LIST = ['the', 'a', 'be', 'that']
    IF title.lower().strip() in BLOCK_LIST:
        Decline search
    
    # Query Book table for matches
    isbn_results = {Query that searchs book titles based on given user title and returns ISBNs in JSON}

    FOR result in isbn_results: 
        read_all_book_data(isbn) -> JSON
    return all results as JSON to caller
````

### 2.5.2.3 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Author (i.e. return all entries).

````
read_all_book_data_by_author(author): -> JSON
    # WIP

````

### 2.5.2.4 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Genre (i.e. return all entries).

````
read_all_book_data_by_genre(genre): -> JSON
    # WIP
    
````

### 2.5.2.5 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Tags (i.e. return all entries).

````
read_all_book_data_by_tag(tag): -> JSON
    match:
        case 'owned': return_all_by_tag_owned()
        case 'favorite': return_all_by_tag_favorite()
        case 'currently_reading': return_all_by_tag_currently_reading()
        case 'read': return_all_by__tag_read()  
        case _: ERROR
    
    # WIP

````

Commit message:

update: pseudocode for read full record

docs/pseudocode-for-tasks/sprint-2-week-1/2.5.2 - Read Full Book Record.md, after:

# 2.5.2 - Read Full Book Record

Note: You could implement the functions with complex queries or use existing read functions
to compose a JSON result from multiple function calls. The pseudocode will be written with the
latter option.

Note: Pseudocode and variable/function names are only for guidance. The only things that are a must 
are the inputs and outputs of the functions.

JSON Schema that all resulting functions that return the whole record must have:
Note: Sample data is included (max possible authors and genres included)
```JSON
{"ISBN": "user_provided_isbn",
 "title": "SomeBook",
 "publish_date": "2026",
 "publisher_id": "3",
 "summary": "asdfdasadfsdfsafds",
 "tag_id": "4",
 "chapters": "23",
 "chapters_completed": "3",
 "cover_image_bytes": "",
 "AuthorID_1": "1",
 "Author_First_Name_1": "John",
 "Author_Last_Name_1": "Doe",
 "AuthorID_2": "4",
 "Author_First_Name_2": "Jane",
 "Author_Last_Name_3": "Doe",
 "Publisher_Name": "SomePublisher",
 "Owned": "yes",
 "Favorite": "yes",
 "Completed": "no",
 "Currently_Reading": "yes",
 "PersonalOrAcademic": "personal",
 "GenreID_1": "1",
 "Genre_1": "fiction",
 "GenreID_2": "3",
 "Genre_2": "fantasy",
 "GenreID_3": "6",
 "Genre_3": "humor",
 "GenreID_4": "4",
 "Genre_4": "drama"}
```

These functions will need to either use existing, reworked, or new query functions to construct.
The following functions are needed:
- read_book_table(isbn) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
    {"ISBN": "user_provided_isbn",
    "title": "SomeBook",
    "publish_date": "2026",
    "publisher_id": "3",
    "summary": "asdfdasadfsdfsafds",
    "tag_id": "4",
    "chapters": "23",
    "chapters_completed": "3",
    "cover_image_bytes": ""}
    ````
- read_author_id(isbn) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"AuthorIDs": ["1", "4"]}
    ````
- read_author_name(author_ids_for_book) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"1": ["John", "Doe"],"4": ["Jane", "Doe"]}
    ````
- read_publisher_name(publisher_id) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"PublisherID": "Publisher_Name"}
    ````
- read_tag_table(tag_id) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"Owned": "yes",
         "Favorite": "yes",
         "Completed": "no",
         "Currently_Reading": "yes",
         "PersonalOrAcademic": "personal"}
    ````
- read_genre_ids(isbn) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"GenreIDs": ["1", "3", "6", "4"]}
    ````
- read_genres(genre_ids) -> JSON
  - Return JSON Schema:
    ````JSON
        {"1": "fiction", 
         "3": "fantasy",
         "6": "humor",
         "4": "drama"}
    ````

    
### 2.5.2.1 - Read Book Record Based on ISBN (i.e. returning all entries).



````
# Function that takes isbn and returns records matching the isbn from tables:
# book, author, publisher, tag, genre, and notes
# This is the biggest function, pretty much all other functions can call this

read_all_book_data(isbn): -> JSON

    # First read book table information from ISBN and add to json_result
    json_result += read_book_table(isbn) # function call returns JSON and append it here
    print(json_result) # Should return: {'isbn': 'user_provided_isbn',
                                         'title': 'SomeBook',
                                         'publish_date': '2026',
                                         'publisher_id': '3',
                                         'summary': 'asdfdasadfsdfsafds',
                                         'tag_id': '4',
                                         'chapters': '23',
                                         'chapters_completed': '3',
                                         'cover_image_bytes': ''} # this can be junk data for now

    
    # Next use ISBN to read BookAuthor table and get AuthorIDs associated with ISBN
    author_ids_for_book = read_author_id(isbn) -> JSON
    print(author_ids_for_book) # Should return: {'AuthorIDs': ['1']} or
                               #                {'AuthorIDs': ['1', '4']}
                               # 1 and 4 refer to example AuthorIDs
    
    # Next using AuthorIDs, get the author first and last names
    author_names = read_author_name(author_ids_for_book) -> JSON
    print(author_names) # Should return: {'1': ['John', 'Doe']}
                        #                                    or
                        #                {'1': ['John', 'Doe'],
                        #                 '4': ['Jane', 'Doe']}
                        # 1 and 4 in this case are example AuthorIDs
    
    # Add AuthorIDs and AuthorNames to json_result
    IF len(author_names) > 2:
        raise ERROR
    ELSE:
        author_number = 1
        FOR key, value in author_names:
            json_result[f'AuthorID_{author_number}'] = key
            json_result[f'Author_First_Name_{author_number}'] = value[0]
            json_result[f'Author_Last_Name_{author_number}'] = value[1]
            author_number += 1
            
    
    # Next use Publishers table with PublisherID to get Publisher_Name
    publisher_name_for_book = read_publisher_name(publisher_id) -> JSON
    print(publisher_name_for_book) # Should return: {'PublisherID': 'Publisher_Name'}
    
    # Directly add the Publisher Name as a new key-value pair to json_result with Publisher Name
    json_result['Publisher_Name'] = publisher_name_for_book['PublisherID']
    
    # Next get Tag information from Tag Table using TagID
    tag_values = read_tag_table(tag_id) -> JSON
    print(tag_values) # Should return: {'Owned': 'yes',
                      #                 'Favorite': 'yes',
                      #                 'Completed': 'no',
                      #                 'Currently_Reading': 'yes',
                      #                 'PersonalOrAcademic': 'personal'}
    # Add Tags to json_result
    FOR key, value in tag_values:
        json_result[key] = value
    
    # Next get GenreID using ISBN from BookGenre Table
    genre_ids = read_genre_ids(isbn) -> JSON
    # Books must have atleast one genre (fiction or nonfiction), up to 3 additional genres
    print(genre_ids) # Should return: {'GenreIDs': ['1', '3', '6', '4']} # Example GenreIDs
    
    # Now get the genres based on the genre_ids
    genres_book_has = read_genres(genre_ids) -> JSON
    print(genres_book_has) # Should return: {'1': 'fiction',
                           #                 '3': 'fantasy',
                           #                 '6': 'humor',
                           #                 '4': 'drama'}
                           # Do not reflect actual ids from genre, only an example
    
    # Now add the genre_ids and genres to json_result
    genre_number = 1
    FOR key, value in genre_ids:
        json_result[f'GenreID_{genre_number}'] = key
        json_result[f'Genre_{genre_number}'] = value
        genre_number += 1
    
    # Was going to add Notes to this function, but that will not be included in this one
    # it will put in a separate function later
    
    # Resulting JSON should look like this:
    print(json_result) # Should return: {'isbn': 'user_provided_isbn',
                                         'title': 'SomeBook',
                                         'publish_date': '2026',
                                         'publisher_id': '3',
                                         'summary': 'asdfdasadfsdfsafds',
                                         'tag_id': '4',
                                         'chapters': '23',
                                         'chapters_completed': '3',
                                         'cover_image_bytes': '', # this can be junk data for now
                                         'AuthorID_1': '1',
                                         'Author_First_Name_1': 'John',
                                         'Author_Last_Name_1': 'Doe',
                                         'AuthorID_2': '4',
                                         'Author_First_Name_2': 'Jane'
                                         'Author_Last_Name_3': 'Doe'
                                         'Publisher_Name': 'SomePublisher',
                                         'Owned': 'yes',
                                         'Favorite': 'yes',
                                         'Completed': 'no',
                                         'Currently_Reading': 'yes',
                                         'PersonalOrAcademic': 'personal',
                                         'GenreID_1': '1',
                                         'Genre_1': 'fiction',
                                         'GenreID_2': '3',
                                         'Genre_2': 'fantasy',
                                         'GenreID_3': '6',
                                         'Genre_3': 'humor',
                                         'GenreID_4': '4',
                                         'Genre_4': 'drama'
                                        }
    return json_result
````

### 2.5.2.2 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Title (i.e. return all entries).

````
read_all_book_data_by_title(title): -> JSON
    # First block searchs with only words like 'the'
    # We can work on the BLOCK_LIST later
    BLOCK_LIST = ['the', 'a', 'be', 'that']
    IF title.lower().strip() in BLOCK_LIST:
        Decline search
    
    # Query Book table for matches
    isbn_results = read_isbn_by_title(title) -> JSON{isbn}

    FOR result in isbn_results: 
        json_result.update(read_book_record_by_isbn(result))
    return all results as JSON to caller
````

### 2.5.2.3 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Author (i.e. return all entries).

````
read_all_book_data_by_author(author): -> JSON
    # First get the ISBNs associated with author
    # Author last name is more important for a search, make first optional
    isbn_results = read_isbn_by_author(author_last_name, author_first_name=None) -> JSON
    
    FOR result in isbn_results: 
        json_result.update(read_book_record_by_isbn(result))
    return all results as JSON to caller
````

### 2.5.2.4 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Genre (i.e. return all entries).
Note: We directly read genre_id from frontend since we will bind the genre name and genre_id on frontend.

````
read_all_book_data_by_genre(genre_id): -> JSON
    # First get the ISBNs associated with genre_id
    isbn_results = read_isbn_by_genre_id(genre_id) -> JSON
    
    FOR result in isbn_results: 
        json_result.update(read_book_record_by_isbn(result))
    return all results as JSON to caller
    
````

### 2.5.2.5 - Read Book Record(s) Based on Tags (i.e. return all entries).
Determined that we will not need this. Filtering will be done at the frontend based on already given results.
For example, lets say we search for books by Clive Barker that we own. We return all Clive Barker books in database
then we filter on a tag on the frontend and only show what is wanted. This allows us to dynamically filter a list
of results using multiple filters without having to query the database again since the JSON does not change.
